Casao, S., et al. (2024). "SpectralWaste Dataset: Multimodal Data for Waste Sorting Automation." arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.18033.
	
Chen, X., et al. (2023). "Enabling mechanical recycling of plastic bottles with shrink sleeves through near-infrared spectroscopy and machine learning algorithms." Resources, Conservation and Recycling 188: 106719.
	Shrink sleeves interfere with the mechanical recycling of plastic bottles because of their poor sortability during near-infrared (NIR)-based sorting. This study aims to identify reasons for their poor sortability and to propose solutions to overcome them. Five machine learning (ML) algorithms (decision tree, random forest, support vector machine, partial least squares, and convolutional neural network) are trained on NIR spectra of sleeved and non-sleeved materials and evaluated on different test datasets to investigate the influences of different product designs and post-consumer effects on the classification process. The results show that the sortability of sleeved plastic bottles can be significantly improved by (i) avoiding printing or coloring sleeves black and sleeves with large-area printing and high shrinkage; (ii) adding sleeved bottle spectra to the ML training data; (iii) choosing optimal ML algorithms with suitable hyperparameters. With these improvements, the NIR-based sorting and thus mechanical recycling of sleeved bottles could increase greatly.

De Vries, R. V. F., et al. (2023). "Hyperspectral reflectance of pristine, ocean weathered and biofouled plastics from a dry to wet and submerged state." Earth System Science Data 15(12): 5575-5596.
	
Leone, G., et al. (2023). "Hyperspectral reflectance dataset of pristine, weathered, and biofouled plastics." Earth System Science Data 15(2): 745-752.
	
Masoumi, H., et al. (2012). "Identification and classification of plastic resins using near infrared reflectance." Int. J. Mech. Ind. Eng 6: 213-220.
	
Rani, M., et al. (2019). "Miniaturized Near-Infrared (MicroNIR) Spectrometer in Plastic Waste Sorting." Materials 12(17): 2740.
	
Sbrana, A., et al. (2023). "Plastic Classification With NIR Hyperspectral Images and Deep Learning." IEEE Sensors Letters 7(1): 1-4.
	
Scott, D. M. and R. L. Waterland (1995). "Indentification of plastic waste using spectroscopy and neural networks." Polymer Engineering & Science 35(12): 1011-1015.
	
Singh, M. K., et al. (2023). "Hyperspectral imaging-based classification of post-consumer thermoplastics for plastics recycling using artificial neural network." Process Safety and Environmental Protection 179: 593-602.
	
Vázquez-Guardado, A., et al. (2015). "Multi-spectral infrared spectroscopy for robust plastic identification." Applied Optics 54(24): 7396-7405.
	The identification and classification of plastics plays an important role in waste management and recycling processes. Present electrical and optical sorting techniques lack the required resolution for accurate identification in a high throughput manner for a diverse set of plastics commonly found in municipal waste. In this work a multi-spectral infrared spectroscopic technique is employed to construct a unique fingerprint library of 12 plastic resin groups that are commonly encountered in municipal waste. We test the proposed method in a blind plastic identification experiment, which shows excellent unbiased identification accuracy. This simple optical technique in combination with the multi-spectral library will enable high throughput and accurate detection of various plastics from recovered solid waste.

Wu, X., et al. (2020). "Auto-sorting commonly recovered plastics from waste household appliances and electronics using near-infrared spectroscopy." Journal of Cleaner Production 246: 118732.
	The recycling of plastics from Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) was constrained by the mix of types. Near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy is suitable for polymer detection, and it is a rapid, non-destructive analysis method that can be applied to automatic on-line sorting system. The NIR spectra of four commonly recovered WEEE plastics, which are polypropylene (PP), polystyrene (PS), acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene/polycarbonate (ABS/PC) blend, was collected. The flame-retardant ABS showed difference from ABS in NIR spectra. Three classification methods, which are spectral angle mapper (SAM), partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and linear discriminant analysis combined with principal component analysis (PCA-LDA), was tested. And the classification models trained on the virgin plastics have been compared with the models trained on the WEEE plastic to evaluate how these methods perform under limited training data. PLS-DA is one of the most widely used classification method in spectral data analysis, but it had unsuccessful prediction when the training set only included virgin plastics. But the overall prediction accuracy over 99% could be achieved by the other two whether the training set was the spectra of virgin plastics or WEEE plastics. In general, NIR spectroscopy has the competency of separating WEEE plastics. Finally, an automatic on-line sorting system was designed specifically for the large plastic segments from household appliances and electronics.

Xia, J., et al. (2021). "Convolutional neural network with near-infrared spectroscopy for plastic discrimination." Environmental Chemistry Letters 19(5): 3547-3555.
	
Yang, Y., et al. (2020). "Rapid and Nondestructive On-Site Classification Method for Consumer-Grade Plastics Based on Portable NIR Spectrometer and Machine Learning." Journal of Spectroscopy 2020: 1-8.
	
Zheng, J., et al. (2024). Multispectral and hyperspectral infrared imaging for plastic waste sorting and recycling. Thermosense: Thermal Infrared Applications XLVI, SPIE.
	
Zheng, Y., et al. (2018). "A discrimination model in waste plastics sorting using NIR hyperspectral imaging system." Waste Management 72: 87-98.
	Classification of plastics is important in the recycling industry. A plastic identification model in the near infrared spectroscopy wavelength range 1000–2500 nm is proposed for the characterization and sorting of waste plastics using acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polystyrene (PS), polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE), polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The model is built by the feature wavelengths of standard samples applying the principle component analysis (PCA), and the accuracy, property and cross-validation of the model were analyzed. The model just contains a simple equation, center of mass coordinates, and radial distance, with which it is easy to develop classification and sorting software. A hyperspectral imaging system (HIS) with the identification model verified its practical application by using the unknown plastics. Results showed that the identification accuracy of unknown samples is 100%. All results suggested that the discrimination model was potential to an on-line characterization and sorting platform of waste plastics based on HIS.

